Gautam Maitra: Please go ahead, yes
Haddouk: Hello.
Haddouk: First of all, I'm very pleased to join this educational programs so that may introduce myself.
Haddouk: My name is Hasnaa Haddouk. I'm the head of preclinical safety and biological sciences in SOBI in Geneva.
Haddouk: And I'm very pleased here to participate. And to give you an overview on non clinical safety and translational  aspects.
Haddouk: With a comparison between small molecules, and biologics. So during this presentation.
Haddouk: I will give you an overview of the requirements in terms of non clinical safety before entering human and even for later stages and also some translation and aspects which are important in the transition from a non clinical to clinical studies and
Haddouk: In this also give an example and the case study. So let's do it in two parts in the first part we will focus mainly on the non clinical safety in drug development.
Haddouk: So we will try to answer here. What are why we do include safety and also when and what. so for the why we need a non clinical safety assessments.
Haddouk: Well, first of all, to characterize the toxic effects of the compound we need to understand about the time the target organs.
Haddouk: Those dependency and relationship to exposure and also if there is any finding if this finding is reversible or not.
Haddouk: And the reason for this is that this is very important to estimate the initial safe dose for phase one. Before you start, and you start any study clinical study in humans.
Haddouk: And then also to identify the subsequent dose escalations scheme because depending on the finding and the severity will have within the non technical talks studies, you might have to follow different
Haddouk: diagram of escalation in one run independent studies. The first in man and also to identify more importantly to identify the biomarkers enter for Pharmacology and Toxicology aspects that you ideally would be
Haddouk: Managed in the same manner or followed in the manner will be coming to the non clinical spaces and true to the human. This will allow you to better monitor for toxicology aspects but, as well as the one who are lucky for some pharmacological activities.
Haddouk: Sometimes we can also face some safety concerns that you might have. But these are not necessarily linked to the intrinsic properties of the compound, you want to test
Haddouk: But this can be related to the quality of the investigation medicinal product you use and linked to the, let's say, to the process of manufacturing
Haddouk: And this also. But it's not out of the scope of the presentation and given here. But it's a it also might result in some safety concern and you have to ensure during your clinical
Haddouk: Testing that you use a compound to have a good quality to ensure that any results in mind of the clinical trial is not an affected by in appropriate to safety, quality or efficacy, which might come from unsatisfactory manufacturer of the compound linked to any impurity or or other issues.
Haddouk: Then
Haddouk: For the question, when can we have way to start. And when do we run on clinical safety package.
Haddouk: So usually I would say there is a distinction to have between one we say preclinical and non clinical so for me preclinical studies is the minimum package that you have to run before you go into phase one studies.
Haddouk: This hour we will go through them in more detail later. It is quite limited number of studies which have to be done before you start phase one. However, it does not mean that all is done because, of course, many other studies and they prefer the term non clinical because this other although
Haddouk: During Phase one, two and three and
Haddouk: Sometimes even beyond older studies to complete the full package before you go for biology biology license on you drag application or a MAA. When you are in Europe.
Haddouk: So,
Haddouk: Then for the nature of the studies that you have to run. So it's quite, it has to cover different aspects that you might face with your compound.
Haddouk: First you have to have an idea of what we call the safety pharmacology studies which are exaggerated pharmacology effect what that you might see not at very high level on your compound, but rather as those which are close to the pharmacological on these
Haddouk: Multiples but with lower range compared to the pharmacological those you will use in the clinical studies and here you focus mainly on the on the main
Haddouk: Organs and safety aspects related to the central nervous system to cardiovascular or respiratory effects which might be having impact, which is
Haddouk: Might be very vital for the for the patients or the healthy volunteer.
Haddouk: You have also to cover multiple the
Haddouk: faults of the of the pharmacological dose you target in human and to cover them in toxicology studies because you need to understand what is your target organ.
Haddouk: For toxicity to be in a better position to follow any science and findings for this during the clinical studies.
Haddouk: You also, of course, during this toxicology studies have to run the toxicokinetic and non Clinical Pharmacogenetics. Is that is to to to to have a better picture of the
Haddouk: Of the how real compound and how your body. I would say behaves with the handling the compounds that does it have a long half life or short half life. Is there any accumulation within the
Haddouk: Related to the exposure or in the opposite. Is there any clearance of your compound which is which become more important when you increase the dose. Sometimes it can happen as well.
Haddouk: Of course, you have to cover
Haddouk: In addition to all the toxicology.
Haddouk: Aspects within the general toxicology studies have to run very specific studies related to development and repro-toxicity studies that we call here under developed DART
Haddouk: Because that's usually called DART studies.
Haddouk: You also need to assess if your compound.
Haddouk: How can have bring any risk related to genotoxicity. Does it and act or has any effect on the DNA either via direct interaction or by and direct interaction through the disturbance of the spindle refresh operations, for example.
Haddouk: Sorry, the spindle.
Haddouk: Which might result in chromosome elaboration on angiogenic effects.
Haddouk: Later on, you also have to consider if there is a need for running depending of course on the
Haddouk: On the indication of your compound and the treatment duration, you use for the compound. If you need any carcinogenic potential assessments with your compound unless it is proven to be genotoxic. And in that case, you might not have to run a carcinogen is carcinogenic study
Haddouk: Of course, and on a case by case basis, you might still have to run other non clinical studies, maybe we can cover some examples.
Haddouk: So for toxicology, I would say, by experience I have worked in in different area and small molecules and biologics, and the profile of the studies and you will run with the difference, depending on the
Haddouk: Molecule you're working on, let's call it to SME for the small molecule entity and the biological I have given here an example of an antibody, which is even be specific activity, but you can have different kinds of biologics and
Haddouk: I would say we should better represent it in this way because the biologic first tractor is completely different from small molecule and therefore based on this. You have to adapt also to take into account, many considerations.
Haddouk: Because because of this difference in size.
Haddouk: Target toxicity will target organ might be different and also the
Haddouk: preclinical package or the non clinical package that you have to run for the development of your compound will be also difference
Haddouk: And here I will try to list the key factors that has to be considered when you and to explain why it is difference between small molecules and large molecules and typically
Haddouk: Because of the manufacturing process which is different, small market is usually done by chemical sentences manufacturer with it's not the case for the the biology synthesis.
Haddouk: The molecular weight is by far high for the biologics, and therefore also the nature of the compound, because the small molecules
Haddouk: When they go they enter the body. They go through metabolism process which will involve phase one and phase two enzymes and results potentially in
Haddouk: In metabolites, different types of metabolize sometimes depending on the spaces and also different amounts of metabolites.
Haddouk: Also for the
Haddouk: However, on the other hand for the biologics, I would say it's more the catabolism the metabolism and the at the end product is more amino acids which going to enter into the turnover on the body so
Haddouk: In this is a main difference between both compounds that has to be taken into account.
Haddouk: And also because of the size it is highly distributed in the body for the small molecules and which is definitely not the case for the antibodies, for example, which is poorly distributed and which staying in the main
Haddouk: In the blood compartments and very limited area which is different from the small molecules and for this moment because it also depends on the lipophilic status of the compound, the more it's lipophilic the more to go deep in the in the organs and
Haddouk: The higher to stay in the body as well.
Haddouk: Of course, depending on the distribution and the lipophilicity and the metabolism or not sort of a compound the the half life will be
Haddouk: Different and typically the small molecule is our definition has half lives in general, which is counted in hours rather for the antibodies. They have read a long half life which is goes from hours for some small not activities but
Haddouk: Proteins and the and which go two weeks for some antibiotics.
Haddouk: Usually the
Haddouk: Administration.
Haddouk: Targeted administration, both in for the clinical studies and for the therapeutic use is usually oral for the small molecules and it's in general it's under IV subcutaneous and intramuscular for the biologics
Haddouk: And this also will impact many aspects for the distribution and for the compounds and it is very rarely very specific specific for the small molecules and it is usually and if it's not often the case specificity specific for the the antibodies
Haddouk: Therefore, because of all these consideration, you might because of higher distribution higher
Haddouk: Possibility for generating the reactive metabolites.
Haddouk: Because of
Haddouk: lack of specificity compared to the biologics. The small molecules were results usually  in more off target toxicity and usually the main target organ is the liver because of the metabolism and the turnover and which is of higher rating the liver for the biologics
Haddouk: You have cases where you have off target toxicity, of course, but the main effects you see is more what we call exaggerated pharmacology.
Haddouk: Which is usually related related to the to the pharmacological activity of the compound. So you need for the biologics to have very good understanding of the pharmacology for the design of your non clinical studies.
Haddouk: So if we consider, as I said before, for the metabolism. The for the
Haddouk: Antibodies in the it results in within blocks of in amino acids with no intrinsic toxicity. I would say for the small molecules here. It's an example for the acetaminophen.
Haddouk: And it goes through phase one, and afterwards in phase two metabolism, but in phase one and there is a some and hydroxyl ation which will result in reactive metabolites that is not your active metabolites that you want to have a having the pharmacological effect. But if there is any
Haddouk: Accumulation of the compound and saturation of the face two metabolism, which is happening for the elimination of the compound, you might result in the reactive metabolites accumulating in the body and resulting in toxicities specifically in this case in the liver.
Haddouk: And this such situation will not happen with the biologics, of course.
Haddouk: The same for access to DNA and micro molecules because of the limitation of the access in general to the membrane to DNA and micro medical and this is not applicable for the bio for the antibodies
Haddouk: However, it can be a big concern for small molecules which can result sometimes depending either as a metabolite or other component, the parent compound itself in the
Haddouk: In gene mutation or chromosomal aberrations and this is definitely something we don't want to follow up on with the compound, usually it's a killer for components.
Haddouk: Also for what is related to cardiac safety small molecules are specifically compounds which have lipophillic characteristics can result in an interaction with with what we call the hERG channel and
Haddouk: Which which might results in the
Haddouk: What we call the QT prolongation and which is in the ECG, and for this QT , it can lead to delayed repolarization of the ventricles and the ultimate results will be that
Haddouk: It results in what we call the tops of the plant and and can lead to some very high risk in terms of cardiac safety and this is definitely not a concern for biologic
Haddouk: If there is any effects on jack activity. It might be an direct but it will never be direct because of the interaction of the with the hERG Channel.
Haddouk: On the other hand, for immunogenicity. It does not mean that for small molecules. You cannot have some
Haddouk: immune reaction of your body against the drug. It might happen, especially if they are linked to other
Haddouk: protein or cellulite compartments in the in the body, but the main concern you have in terms of reaction against your, your drug is the link to the biologics because they have, of course, definitely higher concern potential of inducing antibodies against
Haddouk: Against them in and compared to the small molecules. And in that case, you might results in
Haddouk: What we call ADA antibody drag antibodies which can lead to a potential side effects.
Haddouk: In the worst case scenario or at minimum, you will have higher clearance, because these are neutralizing antibodies of your compound and therefore you can def there. Therefore, you can have a lack of
Haddouk: Efficacy of your components because you lose exposure to your components.
Haddouk: In general, as I said before that, for the biologic to the pharmacology of the biology will usually determines the toxicity profile of your compound as it's named exaggerated pharmacology and
Haddouk: However, sometimes you can
Haddouk: End up having false positive, because you have not used the relevant spaces in non clinical assessment.
Haddouk: Or because the antibody results in immunogenicity reaction against human activity because now we are more and more generated fully human antibodies
Haddouk: When you administer them to the non clinical species you will result in a reaction against that antibody that it's not so relevant and representative for the human situation. So that will result in anaphylactic reactions and which will be
Haddouk: Which will give you a false positive.
Haddouk: Results, which might not be relevant for the human situation. On the other hand, you can also face negative false negative. Sorry.
Haddouk: Results in the non clinical spaces, simply because you have a target antigen and negative spaces for this target antigen and therefore you are not able, in that case to detect the exaggerated pharmacology in your non clinical species.
Haddouk: So when we come back to the small molecules. So, this is the list. I have given before for the clinical toxicology studies that sorry non clinical toxicologist studies that you have to run
Haddouk: Around compound. So for the small molecules, you will have for the pharmacology studies, you will have this includes a package of in vitro and individual assessments in vitro for the hERG channel, and then you do in vivo studies.
Haddouk: Independent standalone studies for the assessment of the respiratory cardiac safety and
Haddouk: And sometimes additional motility, etc. Which which which is more related to safety pharmacology. In that case,
Haddouk: You also have to run the of course the toxicology studies. And for this you need to use two different species one rodents and one more than species.
Haddouk: And the selection of which this is you have to use is usually based on the metabolism profile that you have run before in-vitro to compare the different species and your
Haddouk: Tox species have to cover all the metabolites, you have generated with the compound, you are supposed to have to generate the with the compound with the human
Haddouk: For this you do screening before using the in vitro testing, of course, with different  cells including human cells and you have to compare the metabolism and
Haddouk: And select the two spaces which are representative for for the metabolism of compound in human
Haddouk: Then you have the toxic or kinetic and pharmacogenetics studies that are part of the general toxicology studies.
Haddouk: Not the pharmacogenetics one but two toxic or kinetic one. And for this you have to ensure that your major metabolites. That's our
Haddouk: That's our ultimate goal is, as I said before, are covered and that you don't have any major metabolize which is under
Haddouk: Represented in the non clinical species or not represented at all. In that case, you might even have to sensitize and to do for the development program for your major metabolites and if none of the non clinical species can
Haddouk: Generated within the toxicology studies, of course, you have to run the reprotox studies and for this as well. You need to specify one rodents, which is usually the the rat or mice and one non rodents, which is usually the rabbit and
Haddouk: And
Haddouk: Then as yes as well. You have to do the general toxicity and you do for this, the full package which cover in vitro usually two different tests in vitro for annotation and the chromosome abberation and then additional tests in vivo that you can do later.
Haddouk: In the program development in case you're, of course, to individual tests when they get there is any positive, you have to investigate this quickly and
Haddouk: And run one in vivo, or potentially to enable studies before you. You can you are able to go in first in man.
Haddouk: For the carcinogenic potential it with depends on the duration of use of the compound and also the
Haddouk: Nature of the compound typically for oncology compounds will be not to carcinogenic studies quite raw, but for many indication, you will have to run these studies in two spaces as well, and
Haddouk: You might do auto clinical studies which are dependent on a case by case basis.
Haddouk: This can be photo toxicity studies, studies, depending on which one we were dependent on the absorption coefficient of your compound, not only for topical compounds, but also sometimes for orally administered compounds, because
Haddouk: For the toxicity can happen. Also for orally administers compounds and also of course the assessment of immuno-toxicity and use the bioavailability  studies for some CNS compounds to be
Haddouk: For a biologic
Haddouk: So we start from the for the same list, but there are some distinction to have here, so usually for the pharmacology studies you don't run standalone studies you run them as part of
Haddouk: The toxicology studies. It's a low. The tolerated by you by specific guidelines for Biologics
Haddouk: Because you are supposed to have less concerns in time, typically have codec such as we said before, because there is no expected interaction with the the
Haddouk: The hERG channel for the cardiac safety, although channels and therefore there is more high level assessment, which can be part of the general toxicology studies on
Haddouk: You run, of course, your general toxicology study and usually
Haddouk: It's, it's, it is represented with one species, but that species has to be relevant and
Haddouk: And for antibodies, especially fully human antibodies usually depends also on the target the non human primates is the relevance of spaces, but if it happens that you have two different elements pieces, then you will have to to run the box study in both spaces so
Haddouk: One important thing is to understand what is our 11th spaces and here you have a definition from the guidelines.
Haddouk: Are 11 spaces is a pharmacology active due to the expression of the research over the top and for the case of monoclonal antibodies and which show similarities to cross reactivity profile to human
Haddouk: So usually it's non human primates, but it can be another species as well. And in that case, it has to be evaluated on the top of the non human primates for the biology.
Haddouk: You also have to assess to do toxic or kinetic and pharmacogenetics studies. And for this one particularity in comparison to the small molecules is that he will have also to assess for the immunogenicity the capacity of a compound to and use antibody against the drug.
Haddouk: And which might result I said before in higher clearance of your own body or
Haddouk: Automatically to toxicology effects as well, which are secondary to the ADA and action.
Haddouk: You also have to run our product studies and
Haddouk: Which is more challenging for Biologics because running or Pathak studies in in non human primate is not an easy easy things to do and
Haddouk: Also, in that case, and if it's well justified, you can have what we call the anomalous material or surrogate antibody that will represent the modification of your compound, but it's not the drug.
Haddouk: Itself. And in that case, you have to assess if it is relevant to us to to have a surrogate antibody that will be tested typically
Haddouk: If you let's say you you work on a target, you have to to sensitize the equivalent antibody for that target in the rather than species and
Haddouk: Then you will test the surrogates antibody from the rat, for example, from the minds that you will administer to the rats for this that studies or the opposite.
Haddouk: And to avoid having the antibody the fully human antibody test and in the minds because if there is no cross reactivity is between services, it will not be a real evidence. So you have better to assess the mechanism of action using the surrogate antibody in the audience business right
Haddouk: For general toxicity. This is something go you don't turn for the biologics, except if you have the only case where you have to do it is when you have
Haddouk: Antibody drag congregates and in case the conjugate the small molecules is conjugated to the doctor linker and then you have to assess the effects on the organic linker. In that case, but the antibody itself.
Haddouk: Doesn't have to be assessed in general toxicity studies because it's not expected to to have any general toxic effect.
Haddouk: For the carcinogenic potential and as well. It's on a case by case. And if you do modification of the compound and that's what it's very important to have a good understanding of this preclude from having any carcinogenic potential, then maybe you can argue and have a
Haddouk: waiver for for that day and it kind of studies, typically, and
Haddouk: For the other non clinical studies examples that can be listed for for the
Haddouk: Antibodies is typically the cost is a cross reactivity and the immuno toxicity assessment that you have to do for such component
Haddouk: This is just to give you a picture of
Haddouk: Typical strategy and timing of the non clinical development program that you have to run for an example of and you can be no more directory monoclonal antibody and it gives you the list for the timing.
Haddouk: What you have the minimum, you have to do before your, your phase one study, and what can be done later when you're when you're face to entries that is
Haddouk: Just an example.
Haddouk: So here we will focus on the to give an example for for the generic toxicology studies which are considered Bible studies because you will derive your no idea from the studies as well. So we can
Haddouk: Expand more on this.
Haddouk: So for your services selection, as I said before, for the small molecules, it will
Haddouk: Mainly depend on the metabolism and the exposure data, you will have and also you can have to consider the target expression in the
Haddouk: Market mechanical spaces and i said before you and that usually to have the robin spaces as one of them specificity to this could be my son rights, depending on the metabolism of five.
Haddouk: And one nonresidents usually it's the dark can be the Winnipeg and unless it is justified, it's rarely the monkey, but if
Haddouk: No, no dog on any big doesn't cover this the metabolism for find the from your data in vitro, you might sometimes need to go with the monkey for such purposes, but it's not the first choice for the fall ethically speaking
Haddouk: For the monoclonal antibody, you usually normally to include story 11 spaces, however.
Haddouk: If Apple created just to find one relevance pieces can suffer if you prove that your auntie by the cross react on the with the
Haddouk: In the tissue cross reactivity studying betrayal you prove that it's contracts only with the with the one one spicier than you would need if it is only the monkey, then you can justify for using only the monkey for your tax assessment.
Haddouk: And sometimes it can happen for some new targets or very specific targets that you don't have a relevant specifically which you could identify from your initial evaluation in vitro.
Haddouk: And in that case, you need to use a transgenic animal that were the human target is expressed and or possibly or instead of evaluating your drug evaluate the surrogates using the
Haddouk: Other spaces.
Haddouk: Appropriate for the surrogates, which is you can do it as we said for the robotics. It might be more challenges to justify it from for the toxic studies and then
Haddouk: Sometimes on you can face the issue of not having any real 11 spaces. Nader and a transgenic model one possibility to have a surrogate antibody and you can potentially use only the individual data, but you have really to have
Haddouk: A stronger understanding of your pharmacology.
Haddouk: And have your justification, which sometimes has to go through initial in vivo studies proving that is another element spaces in any case before you can use only individual data, potentially, to, to, to justify
Haddouk: The transition from in vitro data to to to human, but the rationale for this has to be a witness trombley justify them documented and and with the additional experiments and at demonstrating the non relevance of the non clinical spaces there.
Haddouk: For the duration of the general toxicology study. This is extracted from the entry ice educate line and typically before you start
Haddouk: This is in support of the clinical trial before you start any study in human let's say if you know you maximum expected duration of the clinical trial in the human is up to two weeks then
Haddouk: The duration for the studies in non clinical should be equivalent in general, the minimum the duration of the clinical trial. So, if it is between two and six.
Haddouk: Months, what is expected in the clinical trial, you need to have same as the clinical trial at least
Haddouk: Two, four, or six, depending on the duration expected in the clinical trials for the non clinical studies and if it is beyond six months. So you have to run toxicology studies up to six months for the relevance and nine months for the novel.
Haddouk: This is for clinical trial.
Haddouk: Insertion
Haddouk: And
Haddouk: This Bible study should know for for the for the determination of the new y&r non adverse effects.
Haddouk: And should be gap compliant. So according to good laboratory practice and before, in order to ensure that you will get your no idea within our study, usually it's recommended, of course, to have
Haddouk: A preliminary study which is for the maximum to writer to define the maximum tolerated dose, which is for those who aren't finding study in order to ensure that your main Bible study is done under the appropriate conditions.
Haddouk: Before marketing the compound.
Haddouk: Here again you have a summary of indicated treatment duration for the marketed compound and the minimum recommended duration for the repeater does toxicity studies that you need to run in residence and non work and studies. This is also extracted from the entry guideline.
Haddouk: For non clinical activities.
Haddouk: So for the design.
Haddouk: Their minimum required information that you need to consider before initiating toxicology study
Haddouk: You have to consider, of course, the tablets. You can location, the anticipated regime and toes, the administration was the the duration of treatment.
Haddouk: Have some knowledge about target affinity spaces cross reactivity, the farmer kinetic for fine.
Haddouk: If you have already some grip on some PG biomarkers and pharmacogenomics to have also to have an idea what you could follow in the animal studies and
Haddouk: Of course, have all the methods in place for your TK and and immunogenicity a means to how to detect, for example, for biological your own your own compound, but also the antibiotic again the antibodies, the ag AG antibodies. We can do against your monoclonal antibody.
Haddouk: So from the design file to you, so it covers the minimum to be covered with dinner talk study. It's the clinical observation, of course, of the animals, the body weight and the food consumption for no one during the study
Haddouk: The safety pharmacology parameters, even for the small Monique is if you have this applies for both small it is, and the large molecules.
Haddouk: But even if you have standalone studies for small molecules for salsify Mukherjee still need
Haddouk: To assess some parameters during the toxicology study because the safety pharmacology studies as you are usually done for
Haddouk: acute treatment single those however for toxicology studies you administer repeated those. And it's important to assess the ECG, and the blood pressure effect also after repeated those in with the compound.
Haddouk: Of course, you have to assess for of time most of the
Haddouk: pre order to start with the treatment and after completion of treatment and if there is any reverse phase within the study also after the completion of the reverse phase.
Haddouk: The rest phase means you have stopped treatment of the compound and you allow animals to recover for and from any findings, if there was any finding their
Haddouk: During an additional direction to see if you have any effect at the end of the treatment if that effect is reversible. Not so such assessments has to be done at the end of the treatments barrier.
Haddouk: Before the treatment better at the end of the treatment therapy and at the end of the recovery. The treatment for
Haddouk: clinical pathology. So it's typical biochemistry mythology and calculation factors to be assessed.
Haddouk: The immuno phenotype in the immuno
Haddouk: mineralogy aspects sultry middle of funnel type in a nonlinear analysis as well. If possible, and then the toxic or kinetic as we said exposure and immunogenicity the idea and then fact when exposure to the component for the case of the biologics, and the microscopic examiner wants the
Haddouk: Studies terminated and the animals are sacrifice to have to do the microscopic examination, and most importantly, to do the microscopic examination, which also record. Usually the history pathology.
Haddouk: Because this is the key element to see how you're finding in bio chemistry and the mythology are reflected in the findings in the organ and microscopic tissue.
Haddouk: Examination because at the completion of this study all the organs tissues from the whole body are examine examine under the microscope to see that and finding and compared to the fake a control group, which is not treatment.
Haddouk: Of course, and the other 11th parameter biomarker, which is driven by the knowledge of the pharmacology of the compound has to be if possible assessed.
Haddouk: And all these parameters will be considered in the in the determination of the known have served
Haddouk: Adverse Effect level than one. Yeah, and also sometimes for oncology, we don't necessarily have the No idea.
Haddouk: Because of the high dosage of the compounds as well. But we determine who they tell me what we call the highly non severity toxic dose, which can also be used for the determination of the first set in men and those
Haddouk: Then when you want to transition from non clinical too early clinical
Haddouk: Studies. There are some as we said some
Haddouk: items to be taken into account. So you have to estimate the first the first doesn't human for this you will use in general don't know why. Yeah. As we said before, the highly not say very toxic those oncology compound that you obtained from your mechanical
Haddouk: toxicology by portal gap study. And if you have two different species who have been tested for your toxicology assessment, you have to consider.
Haddouk: The most sensitive or 11 species for for that assessment. Let's say you have two different no idea if both species are relevant, you will take the lowest those
Haddouk: Are the most sensitive spaces and therefore the lowest know again for the calculation of the human equivalent tools and from that those you will derive what we call a safety factor. And then in order to determine the minimum required starting those in in in human form phase one.
Haddouk: Sorry, the maximum recommended starting those then for this.
Haddouk: Starting those you might need to apply additional or decrease increase or decrease the safety factor because for the for the safety factor should be minimum of 10 and you might
Haddouk: Increase that factor or decreases depending on on how severe was defined in in the toxicology studies in non clinical spaces in let's say if you have an absence of any monetary signs during the toxicology studies, it's might be a higher risk because you might not have any
Haddouk: Alerting signals during the clinical studies. So you might need to increase the safety factor because you want to avoid having this toxicity that you have seen in the in the non clinical spaces. If you are in
Haddouk: Not in a good position to have to have
Haddouk: An alerting meters on this toxic effects of course if you are
Haddouk: Working with another teacher perfect target you might go in a gray zone which you don't have a good understanding and knowledge. In that case, you might have also to increase the safety margin in order to to test significantly lower those compared to what you have seen in
Haddouk: What you have tested in any case basis.
Haddouk: On the other hand, if you have very well characterized the compound the class of compounds, the effect that you see is predictable is reversible. It's easily monitored. You might even sometimes have to
Haddouk: Have the possibility to to slightly decreased do your safety factor of 10 to it might might start with the safety factor of 10 or five a tree or five. Sorry, instead of them, but this of course has to be
Haddouk: Proposed and agreed.
Haddouk: Upon with the regulatory authorities, which will give you the the approval for the start of your clinical testing.
Haddouk: You can also, and more importantly, have to consider lowering the dose of LSD.
Haddouk: When appropriate if you have more information specifically for the biological compound regarding the pharmacology play active those
Haddouk: And we will see in the case study, we will discuss later in the second part of this presentation and example for this.
Haddouk: Okay, so here I finished with my first part and
Haddouk: We can have
Haddouk: To break here. And before we we go to the translation and aspect and the case studies.
Gautam Maitra: Thank you so much. Thank you. Thank you know we stopped.